# Team Name: EVA
# Team Members: Alexander Davison, Computer Science, davisoat@mail.uc.edu
# Project Topic Area: Virtual Assistant, Speech and Image Recognition, Healthcare
  There are many health issues that strike older adults and in many cases, individuals need to lean more on family members to help them do simple daily tasks. This sometimes looks like a son or daughter taking care of a parent or even moving the individual to an assisted living facility. We wanted to help aid older adults with aging independently at home. Specifically, we are developing a virtual assistant device (EVA) to help elderly people take their medication properly. EVA will utilize speech and image recognition in order to allow the user to easily interface with it. User's will now be able to take their medicine the right way at the right time, and never run out of medication unexpectedly. EVA will report to physicians on prescription use metrics. 
  
There are a few devices out there that currently attempt to aid elderly adults to take their medication properly. Some devices focus specifically on administering the appropriate pills at the appropriate time.
  
There are 2 different types of devices that help to resolve this problem. The first would be a device like an Alexa Show or Google Home, with software on it to help with medicine consumption. There are many issues with this approach. First, the limitations of using software on an Alexa device would mean the features needed to be implemented would not be possible with the current mechanical configuration (unable to tilt/move camera). Furthermore, many elderly adults are not familiar with interfacing with a device such as an Alexa Show/ Google Home, so using the said device could be daunting and uncomfortable for users. Also, the area of security with a device such as this is a concern for users, since the device would always be listening. No such software currently exists on a device such as these designed for elderly adults to appropriately take their medicine.

The other approach is the medicine distribution device, that distributes the appropriate medicine at the appropriate times. Some of these devices are the Hero and the e-Pill MedSmart Plus. One issue with the e-Pill device requires a nurse to appropriately load the correct amount of pills in each slot for the month. Also, it cannot monitor if the medicine was properly taken, and cannot therefore generate reports. There’s also no information on the medicine being taken, it solely accomplishes providing the user with the appropriate medicine at the appropriate time. The Hero is a bit different but has the same limitations as the e-Pill.

We have a team of 6 individuals to help aid in a solution to the said problem statement. Janet is our Faculty Advisor and she’ll aid us in the design process as a whole, as well act as a general advisor for our solution. Sulsal is a practicing physician that has seen first hand the need of a device such as this. He has provided information on real world scenarios, medical information, and helped provide a vision for the project. Alex has experience with Python and embedded systems, making the implementation of the software on to a proprietary device possible. He also is acting as team lead/ facilitator. Ram also has experience with Python and embedded systems, as well as image recognition. Yugo has experience with CAD and 3d modeling. He will utilize those skills to create a 3D printed housing for our electronic components. Andrew will provide information on current medical solutions to our problem statement, as well as research compliance guidelines such as HIPAA. 
  
We have decided to develop a virtual assistant device (EVA) to help elderly people take their medication properly. There are a few key areas that we wanted to cover with this device, those being: simple user interface, drug information for neural link/ user compliance, reports on how well the user takes medicine and prescription management. We’ve designed an Alexa Show like device with a Raspberry Pi acting as the brains of the device. 
  
Because the intended users of the device are elderly adults, how the user interfaces with the device needs to be very simple and easy. This means that the main way the user will interface with the device is through voice. The device will use Speech recognition to talk with the user. There will also be a large touch screen and some buttons to toggle different settings like volume and power. 
  
The device will take videos of the users taking their medicine and gather metrics on the user like: what time they take their meds, how many days they miss, if they miss why etc. These will be used to generate a report that physicians/ family members can look at in order to guide decisions for future care. 

Eva will also be able to provide information on the medicine being taken by the user. Oftentimes, elderly adults will be taking 5-10 different medications and it’s hard to keep them all straight. This way, the user will learn about what medicine they’re taking, how it helps them, and associate the specific pill with the medicine name and what it is for. This neural link will help with user compliance since the user knows specifically the use of the medicine and how it helps them. 

Eva will be able to help assure that users never miss a prescription refill. By using image recognition from scanning pill bottles, the device will be able to store when a specific prescription needs refilled, and help remind/guide the user to refill it. 
